			Adventurer's Backpack
			By Danae

Version: 2.3
Requires: Morrowind, Tribunal and Bloodmoon

------------
Description
------------
Add a wearable, scripted and enchanted backpack to the game as well a an enchanted neck pouch.

You may get a backpack from Elone if you ask her about Blade Trainers or purchase one from traders.

When you equip the backpack for the first time, you will get to choose which survival mod you are using: Necessities of Morrowind, Bare Necessities, Frostfall, Water&Thirst + Cooking&Eating, none or Companion backpack.

- NoM: a bedroll, firekit and frying pan + feather 40 points
- Bare Necessities: a bedroll, a tent and a bottle of water  + feather 40 points
- Frostwind: a bedroll, a firekit and a tent + feather 40 points
- Hunger & Thirst: a cookfire and a water catcher + feather 40 points
- None: feather 60 points
- Companion: 100 AR, feather 60 points, CANNOT be equipped by the player

- Neck pouch: feather 5 points

Mod cleaned with tes3cmd and testool

--------
Install
--------
Unzip in your Data Folder or use your prefered mod installer
Load this BEFORE any survival mod (NoM, BN, Frostwind/Ashfall)



Known Issues
--------------------
None (but respect the load order!)

You do NOT need MWSE to run this mod. 
	With MWSE: the backpack does not take the pauldron slot, you may equip both pauldrons + backpack.
	Without: the backpack is worn instead of a left pauldron: you can equip right pauldron + backpack

Changelog
----------------
Version 1.0 	Original release
Version 1.1 	Improved the script
Version 1.2 	Traders add supllies to the backpack for a fee.
Version 1.3 	Changed the weight of the backpack, they are now medium armour
	    	Fixed a dialogue loop
Version 1.4 	Caught a couple of typos.
	    	Removed the NOM version
	    	Adventurer's backpack - simple only has the feather enchant;ent but no script (activtating the backpack won't 		give you items) and traders won't offer to add supplies to your backpack
	    	Fixed another dialogue loop
	    	Fixed the script on the backpack with enchater supplies
Version 2.0	Removed the second type of backpack (the uglier one)
		Removed the dialogues to add extra items to the backpack (never used it myself)
		Added new scripts to accomodate all major survival mods all in one esp
		The non scripted backpack has a stronger feather enchantment
Version 2.0a	Hotfix ashfall backback script
Version 2.1	MWSE update: backpack does NOT take the pauldron slot
		Arnour rating 0, feather +10
Version 2.2	Ashfall backpack removed (Ashfall has its own sext packback)
		Added Hunger&Thirst backpack to work with Water and Thirst ﻿and Cooking and Eating, 2 mods by RacerPlume
		Removed the requirement to have firekits for Frostwind and NoM backpacks
Version 2.3	Added a Neck Pouch by request

Contact
------------
Contact me (Danae123) over at the Nexus as well as on Discord (Danae#1031) and even better, come say hi during the livestreams on Twitch (https://www.twitch.tv/danaeplays)


Credits
----------
MYJ for the backpack model
Bethesda Softworks  Morrowind and the Construction Set.
Brucoms for the readme generator
Aurel300 for fixing my script.
Greatness7 for the MWSE version

Permissions
------------------
You must ask permission to modify my mod.
Permission will be given, I just like to know if my mods are used somewhere :)
